[docs] Reformat config reference (#4332)
drud/ddev: docs/content/users/configuration/config_yaml.md

# Config Options

DDEV configuration is stored in YAML files that come in two flavors:

1. :octicons-file-directory-16: **Project** `.ddev/config.yaml` settings, with optional [environmental override](#environmental-overrides) variants.
2. :octicons-globe-16: **Global** `$HOME/.ddev/global_config.yaml` settings that can apply to all projects.

Most of these settings take effect when you run `ddev start`.

## Managing Configuration

### Setting Options

You can hand-edit the YAML files DDEV creates for you after running `ddev config`, and you can also define most settings with equivalent CLI arguments:

=== "config.yaml"

    ```yaml
    php_version: "8.1"
    ```
=== "`ddev config`"

    ```shell
    ddev config --php-version 8.1
    ```

    Run `ddev help config` to see all the available config arguments.

### Environmental Overrides

You can override the per-project `config.yaml` with files named `config.*.yaml`.

For example, many teams use `config.local.yaml` for configuration that’s specific to one environment, and not checked into the team’s default `config.yaml`.

---

## `additional_fqdns`

> An array of [extra fully-qualified domain names](../extend/additional-hostnames.md) to be used for a project.

Reviewer: `ddev config --additional-fqdns` does work.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | `[]` |

Example: `additional_fqdns: ["example.com", "sub1.example.com"]` would provide HTTP and HTTPS URLs for `example.com` and `sub1.example.com`.

!!!warning
    Take care with this; it adds items to your `/etc/hosts` file which can cause confusion.

> ## `additional_hostnames`

Reviewer: `ddev config --additional-hostnames=...` does work.

Example: `additional_hostnames: ["somename", "someothername", "*.thirdname"]` would provide HTTP and HTTPS URLs for `somename.ddev.site`, `someothername.ddev.site`, and `one.thirdname.ddev.site` + `two.thirdname.ddev.site`.

The wildcard (`*`) setting only works if you’re using DNS to resolve hostnames (default) and connected to the internet.

## `composer_root`

The relative path, from the project root, to the directory containing `composer.json`. (This is where all Composer-related commands are executed.)

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | |

## `composer_version`

Composer version for the web container and the `ddev composer` command.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | `2` | Can be `2`, `1`, or empty (`""`) for latest major version at container build time.<br><br>Can also be a minor version like `2.2` for the latest release of that branch, an explicit version like `1.0.22`, or a keyword like `stable`, `preview` or `snapshot`. See Composer documentation.

## `database`

The type and version of the database engine the project should use.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --

> | :octicons-file-directory-16: project | MariaDB 10.3 | Can be MariaDB 5.5–10.7, MySQL 5.5–8.0, or PostgreSQL 9–14.<br>See [Database Server Types](../extend/database_types.md) for examples and caveats.

Author: I think [I figured it out](https://github.com/drud/ddev/pull/4332/commits/07d179174bc816ab2d96c34edd089b83a4e7ba1b)!

!!!note
    DDEV v1.18 and earlier used `mariadb_version` and `mysql_version`, which are now automatically converted to the `database` format.

## `dbimage_extra_packages`

Extra Debian packages for the project’s database container.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --

> | :octicons-file-directory-16: project | `[]` |

Author: > This is great communication in rendered page (the images). I wish it could be meaningful in the source though.

Same. In VuePress world we could introduce custom elements like `<icon kind="globe"/>` or whatever. Not sure if there’s a better way here.

> I'm thinking that "empty" might be more descriptive than []...

I thought `[]` indicated an empty _array_ whereas the word “empty” is less specific about the expected format. But this isn’t a hill I’d like to die on.

When `true`, nginx will not listen for http/2, but just use http/1.1 SSL. (Some browsers don’t work well with http/2.)

## `disable_settings_management`

Whether to disable CMS-specific settings file management.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | `false` | Can be `true` or `false`.

When `true`, DDEV will not create or update CMS-specific settings files.

## `docroot`

Relative path to the document root containing `index.php` or `index.html`.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | automatic | DDEV will attempt to detect this and set it for you, otherwise falling back to the current directory.

## `fail_on_hook_fail`

Whether `ddev start` should be interrupted by a failing [hook](../configuration/hooks.md), on a single project or for all projects if used globally.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project<br>:octicons-globe-16: global | `false` | Can be `true` or `false`.

## `hooks`

DDEV-specific lifecycle [hooks](hooks.md) to be executed.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | `` |

## `host_db_port`

> Port for binding database server to localhost interface.

Author: IIRC there are a few places where “automatic” should either be listed in default or clarified in the description. 🤔

> Port for binding database server to localhost interface.

Author: [Fixed](https://github.com/drud/ddev/pull/4332/commits/7843b63505b6626984b31e8cb8745e8b08a2ec84).

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | |

Can be a specific port number for a fixed database port, which can be useful for configuration of host-side database clients. (May still be easier to use `ddev mysql`, `ddev psql`, `ddev sequelpro`, etc., which handle changing ports automatically, as does the sample command `ddev mysqlworkbench`.)

## `host_https_port`

> Specific, persistent HTTPS port for direct binding to localhost interface.

Author: [Fixed](https://github.com/drud/ddev/pull/4332/commits/7843b63505b6626984b31e8cb8745e8b08a2ec84).

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | |

Not commonly used. Can be a specific port number for a fixed HTTPS URL. If unset, the port will change each time `ddev start` is run.

Example: `59001` will have the project always use `https://127.0.0.1:59001` for the localhost URL—used less commonly than the named URL which is better to rely on.

## `host_webserver_port`

> Specific, persistent HTTP port for direct binding to localhost interface.

Author: [Fixed](https://github.com/drud/ddev/pull/4332/commits/7843b63505b6626984b31e8cb8745e8b08a2ec84).

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | current LTS version | Can be `14`, `16`, or `18`.

`nvm` is also available inside the container and via `ddev nvm`, and can be set to any valid version including much older ones.

## `omit_containers`

Containers that should not be loaded automatically for one or more projects.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project<br>:octicons-globe-16: global | `[]` | **For projects**, can include `db`, `dba`, and `ddev-ssh-agent`.<br>**Globally**, can include `dba` and `ddev-ssh-agent` only.

Example: `omit_containers: [db, dba, ddev-ssh-agent]` starts the project without a `db` container, phpMyAdmin, and SSH agent. Some containers can be omitted globally in `~/.ddev/global_config.yaml` and the result is additive; all containers named in both places will be omitted.

!!!warning
    Omitting the `db` container will cause database-dependent DDEV features to be unstable.

## `override_config`

Whether to override config values instead of merging.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | `false` | Can be `true` or `false`.

> When `true`, the `config.*.yaml` file with the option will have its settings *override* rather than *merge with* others. Allows statements like `nfs_mount_enabled: false` or `additional_hostnames: []` to work.

Reviewer: Please link to https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/latest/users/extend/customization-extendibility/#extending-configyaml-with-custom-configyaml-files

Author: [Done](https://github.com/drud/ddev/pull/4332/commits/2b85a55ad64b9339f194cbd6a9e1bcb9d80a3634).

## `php_version`

The PHP version the project should use.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --

> | :octicons-file-directory-16: project | `8.0` | Can be `5.6`, `7.0`, `7.1`, `7.2`, `7.3`, `7.4`, `8.0`, `8.1`, or `8.2`.

Reviewer: As these have been growing longer (it was once 5.6 and 7.0!) I've been simplifying with `5.6`-`8.2`

Author: You okay leaving these spelled out? I don’t think it hurts the page layout, and the full list is both explicit and easy to copy from. Could save two people from trying PHP 7.6. 😄

Reviewer: yes, I'm ok with it.

You can only specify the major version (`7.3`), not a minor version (`7.3.2`), from those explicitly available.

## `phpmyadmin_https_port`

Port for project’s phpMyAdmin HTTPS URL.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | `8037` | Can be changed to avoid a port conflict.

## `phpmyadmin_port`

Port for project’s phpMyAdmin HTTP URL.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | `8036` | Can be changed to avoid a port conflict.

## `project_tld`

Default TLD to be used for a project’s domains, or globally for all project domains.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project<br>:octicons-globe-16: global | `ddev.site` | Can be changed to any TLD you’d prefer.

## `required_docker_compose_version`

> Specific docker-compose version for download.

Reviewer: This will only be used in specific troubleshooting cases. This option should not be used.

Author: [Fixed](https://github.com/drud/ddev/pull/4332/commits/5258a6541398d0521dde8f64b5b151bacbf53191).

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-globe-16: global | `` |

If set to `v2.8.0`, for example, it will download and use that version instead of the expected version for docker-compose.

## `router_bind_all_interfaces`

> Whether to bind on all network interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether to bind `ddev-router`'s ports on all network interfaces.
```

## `table-style`

Style for `ddev list` and `ddev describe`.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-globe-16: global | `default` | Can be `default`, `bold`, and `bright`.

`bright` is a pleasant, colorful output some people may prefer.

## `timezone`

Timezone for container and PHP configuration.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | `UTC` | Can be any [valid timezone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones), like `Europe/Dublin` or `MST7MDT`.

## `type`

The DDEV-specific project type.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | `php` | Can be `backdrop`, `craftcms`, `drupal6`, `drupal7`, `drupal8`, `drupal9`, `drupal10`,  `laravel`, `magento`, `magento2`, `php`, `shopware6`, `typo3`, or `wordpress`.

The `php` type doesn’t attempt [CMS configuration](../../users/quickstart.md) or settings file management and can work with any project.

## `upload_dir`

Path from the project’s docroot to the user-generated files directory targeted by `ddev import-files`.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | |

> This is a CMS-specific setting that won’t have any effect for generic `php` [project types](#type).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

That was obsolete.

## `use_dns_when_possible`

Whether to use DNS instead of editing `/etc/hosts`.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | `true` | Can be `true` or `false`.

When `false`, DDEV will always update the `/etc/hosts` file with the project hostname instead of using DNS for name resolution.

See [Using DDEV Offline](../details/offline-usage.md).

## `use_docker_compose_from_path`

> Whether to use the system-installed docker-compose. You can otherwise use [`required_docker_compose_version`](#required_docker_compose_version) to specify a version for download.

Reviewer: This should only be used in specific troubleshooting scenarios.

Author: [Fixed](https://github.com/drud/ddev/pull/4332/commits/5258a6541398d0521dde8f64b5b151bacbf53191).

## `webimage_extra_packages`

Extra Debian packages for the project’s web container.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | `[]` |

Example: `webimage_extra_packages: [php-yaml, php-bcmath]` will add the `php-yaml` and `php-bcmath` packages when the web container is built.

## `webserver_type`

Whether Xdebug should be enabled for [step debugging](../debugging-profiling/step-debugging.md) or [profiling](../debugging-profiling/xdebug-profiling.md).

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | `nginx-fpm` | Can be `nginx-fpm` or `apache-fpm`.

## `working_dir`

Working directories used by `ddev exec` and `ddev ssh`.

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | |

Example: `working_dir: { web: "/var/www", db: "/etc" }` sets the working directories for the `web` and `db` containers.

## `xdebug_enabled`

Whether Xdebug should be enabled for [step debugging](../debugging-profiling/step-debugging.md) or [profiling](../debugging-profiling/xdebug-profiling.md).

| Type | Default | Usage
| -- | -- | --

> | :octicons-file-directory-16: project | `false` | Can be `true` or `false`. Most people use `ddev xdebug` and `ddev xdebug off` commands instead of configuring this, because of Xdebug’s significant performance impact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| :octicons-file-directory-16: project | `false` | Please leave this `false` in most cases. Most people use `ddev xdebug` and `ddev xdebug off` commands.
```
